Given the distinction between subjective and objective styles of observation described in the essay "4D Holons and choice", a key question is how these dynamics alter when holons exchanging information are of very different scales. Consider tthe interplay between multiple team members seeking to accoplish a complex task. At the smallest level of organization, we have individual team members for the duration of their individual flow experiences. These units of measure may themselves be ambiguous, as a typicla flow experience can be more or less intense. It is certainly true that a human experiencing flow does have some interaction with the environment and thus, is only ever partially in a state of superposition. The degree to which an individual flow experience is 'broken up' by effects like being observed or forming memories itself creates a 'sliding scale' of larger and smaller, more or less intense flow experiences for the person in question. The individual 'starts and stops' of consciousness that caracterise everyday experience are presumably identical in quality. It is only in scale that the holons of the everyday differ from the holons of flow, with probabilities changing nonlinearly as the holons increase in scale. 
If we extedn our investigation beyond the narrow focus of a sporting event - say to a group of co-workers pursuing a flow-inducing goal over a period of months - then these 'local' holons, personal and group both, are embedded within one or more larger holons. To what degree the same kind of consciousness which characterises holons in a neural net over a short time period can extend to such larger campaigns, with their starts and stops, is an intriguing question. We may presume that this dynamic follows the same tradeoffs we see at local scales, with a lower 'density' of consciousness commensurate with its greater 'size'. 
Three or four distinct scales are thus relevant in considering the dynamics of human consciousness as four dimensional holons. At the intrahuman scale, individual complexes within the human neural network exchange information across short time spans. These smaller units of consciousness are likely more intense but less meaningful than the large narratives composed mostly of memory and prediction that make up everyday experience. Extending a smaller number of possible states through a laonger time characterises flow experience, with access to less likely outcomes becoming possible. Being of a higher dimension, the 4D mind increases in size faster than its 3D 'surface', or experiences. 
At the extrahuman scale are holons composed of multiple actors operating over a long time frame - we might call such holons 'campaigns'. The amount of information exchanged internally to such holons is sparse enough that it would be very diffuse compared to a human's consciousness. Nonetheless, so long as substantially more information is exchanged internally as opposed to with the environment, the campaing's internal state would be in superposition from the perspective of the environment and thus the outcomes of its transitions would be unpredictable. And the result of this transition energy being expanded would make the campaign its own agent, albeit one with very different subjective experiences than the human scale ones we think of by default.
As for these human-scale consciousnesses, this is where we can count a third and possibly a fourth scale. An individual agent often experiences group flow while being part of a team of people joined for a common purpose. In this case, the individual, more intense conscousness of the person is a 'building block' of a larger, more diffuse consciousness. But the individual subunits of a human agent's experiences typically contain odels of the other team members - more accurate models allowing better group flow. Statistically, these other members will consist of temporal holons for only a fraction of the time the largest holon characterising a team member's experience. 
Thus the temporal holons characterising human experience are reciprocally embedded. A humanlike consciousness can be embedded within a team that is physically larger than itself while modelling and observing the team in a holon with a longer relaxation time than the team itself. 
This may be why the image of the fates at their loom is so compelling when we consider the nature of time. Mutual subjective observation extends and interweaves the subjects, while objective observation shortens and distances them. This interweaving based on the kind of attention passing between subjects is a key feature of the interplay of different consciousnesses.
This difference between subjectifying or objectifying - or being subjectified versus being objectified - can be intuited at the human scale. But we would expect that some of the ost interesting dynamics would happen when the interaction happens betwen holons at vastly different scales. But we would expect that some of the most interesting dynamics would happen when the interaction happens between holons at vastly different scales. Consider the subjectifying-objectifying dynamic applied between the scale of a human and a few human cells, or a human and something comparatively larger than a human, perhaps 'the arc of history' or 'nature'. 
Subjective interaction with holons much larger than a human is conceptually very similar to the traditional concept of prayer. If interaction without the creation of facts (IE subjective observation) interweaves the holons in question, then subjective observation of a holon much larger than the observer would facilitate an expansion of the smaller observer's consciousness - and perhaps, a local intensification of the larter holon's consciousness. 
We may consider this intensification of consciousness as bringing in more transition energy or ego that may be expanded druing ego depletion. Holding an image of something desired in mind while opening oneself to a much greater holon would presumably influence which surfaces a transition touches. In this way, it provides an explanation for the effectiveness of prayer. 
On a more familiar scale, let us consider the relation between a person and a campaign. At this level, the relationship is more similar to that of a body to an organ system than a cell.
In engaging with campaigns there are both objectifying and subjectifying attitudes that can be taken. An obvious strategy would be to maximally objectify the desired outcome or milestones, while maximally subjecifying the difficulties or obstacles that must be overcome. 
Thinking about success in an objecifying way forces specificity, which is widely considered useful from a practical perspective. But holistic temporality predicts that a potentially more beneficial actiity would be the extenstion and intensification of transition energy across a large time frame. This transition energy may be accessible for use in affecting the probably events at the borders of the campaign. Of course, an entanglement across such a long time stretch would make information available that could alter the decisions made at the outset. Often in conceptualising the role of willpower in affecting outcomes we think of willpower used at the outset of a campaign. But holistic temporality would model willpower as a four-dimensional quantity. The degree to which it would be effective at all would depend on the degree to which it was a single four dimensional holon, with information exchanged across the entirety of its four dimensional extant. Willpower used at the outset would effectively influence the the outcome only to the degree that it is in coherence with the willpower extant through the rest of the campaign. 
How one can practically bring the transition energy of a smaller temporal holon into coherence with that of a larger one touches on a fundamental question the holistic temporality model raises. To the degree that classical intuitions about time acknowledge entanglement between different moments at all, it is limited to directly adjacent ones. But experiments such as the quantum eraser indicat that delayed mesurements can have an effect on events not directly adjacent to the measurement itself. What then is the determining factor as to whether nonadjacent holons are sufficiently coherent so as to exchange information?
Research such as Sheldrake's may give an indication [1]. If relative degrees of entanglement are based on the rate of information transfer, then although transfer happens more easily between temporally proximate regions it is not limited to them. A neural system with particular characteristics can retain information that is easier to call up when similar dynamics occur laater than in temporally closer regions with different dynamics.
Adjacent temporal regions are therefore more likely to exchange infomraiton and thus be in superposition from the point of view of an typical observer, but they are not the only ones capabel of doing so. A human seeking maximum effectiveness within a campaign could therefore focus on information exchanged with the campaign at all its times of existence, even if they are separated by temporal regions unrelated enough to each be separate holons from the point of view of the other. 
Information exchange sufficiently rich for entanglement to occur, with the benefitsy in probability extension this brings, is characterised by the presence of subjective experience. Although the precise neural mechanisms that give rise to subjective experience requires further study, maximising subjective consciousness by directing attention to the subjective experience of all parts of a campaign should increase the total consciousness, and thus the transition energy available. Ensuring all this energy 'pulls in the same direction' is then a matter of the desires of all subregions of the campaign being aligned.
How to align these desires is first a question of knowing what they are. Deep familiarity being a prerequisite for group flow makes sense in this context. The desires of all participants must be 'brought to the table' in order to allow maximum alignment of diverse desires. This sort of openness is often taken to extremes in very successful teams. For example, Dieter Duhm, cofounder of Tamera, has credited a significant part of that intentional community's longevity to the members willingness to be unusually open with one another, even about their sexual desires. 
A key question about how a 'unity of purpose' is achieved across a long time span can be approached with the previously raised points. Consider the example of a human at prayer. A common feature of prayer is to emphasize the desire of the deific figure, 'thy will, not my will, be done' being a commonly expressed sentiment. If we accept the larger holon as having its own larger, looser neural net and consciousness, then accessing this larger consciousness would presumably allow the human at prayer to gain insights generated by the larger rparty's grander neural net. Aligning with this larger consciousness's desires is presumably necessary to be successful in one's endeavours. But so long as one's individual desires are not in conflict with the larger consciousness, adding them in to the flow can lead to an intensification of the consciousness at work. 
Under the holistic temporality model, both expansion and intensification of consciousness takes place during subjective observation. Prayer benefits the human by allowing access to a greater consciousness unbounded by local concerns. But the universal consciousness also benefits, having the locally intensified consicousness of the human align with its own. 
It is in the skillful interweaving of the greater and lesser consciousnesses that the potential for better living can be found. The human holon must have enough individuality - fostered by objective interior observation - to have desires of its 'own'. Then, these desires must be aligned with the desires of the greater mind through intersubjective observation. In this way the individual can not only benefit from, but intensify the experiences of, the greater mind. 


References:
[1] Sheldrake, Rupert. The Presence of the past: Morphic Resonance and the Habits of Nature. Icon Books, 2011.
